finally let's get to part
[Music]
one don't you know it is getting it is
getting
hard I need I need secrets to be
[Music]
so my last video I explained why I had
sold my previous Business board I kind
of realize is that we haven't really
talked about why I started this new
business like I sold it and that was
great it wasn't lifechanging money I
didn't get enough to like retire this
was not some like Facebook IPO
lifechanging money like by all of the
Ferrari I sold them and that was great
but now I want to start something new so
so it's kind of hard to explain so I'm
going to break this up into four parts
number one is what I'm building two is
how I decided what to build number three
is how I decided what to pursue first
clients or customers and then number
four is how you can be a part of it
which is pretty cool so with OK kimonos
and gear reviews I kind of thought about
where I was after all that time and
after years and years of pushing it was
time to take my skills and leverage them
to something that would be able to
provide more value right it's awesome if
you have digital marke skills and it's
making you $200 a month but what if
those exact same skills could get you
$2,000 a month or $20,000 a months
pretty much true so my initial thought
was I'm going to make courses I'm going
to just provide a bunch of value in
content marketing I'll make coaches or
I'll make courses I'll get coaching
clients and everything will be awesome
and everything seemed to be lining up I
had it all planned out in a Google doc
right that's what you do you plan it out
in a Google doc that makes it real
doesn't make it real and here's exactly
what I would do do it's exactly what I
had in that Google doc first I would
create a course on how to become an
expert in anything that would help
alleviate people's stress of like oh I
don't want to take Brendan's Business
course cuz I don't feel like I'm an
expert in anything so I would teach them
how to do that then I'd release a course
on bootstrapping your business makes
sense right they don't have any money to
with for ads or they don't want to take
investment so bootstrapping your
business become an expert bootstrap your
business and then I would teach them how
to do webinars make podcasts become
coaches all of that kind of it's
it's and the reason I thought I was
qualified to do it is because I've done
all of those things right I have I've
had a really good podcast I've sold a
ton of products digital products on
webinars I've coached people I've had
people pay me a ton of money to talk to
them over Skype that was awesome but I
felt like I could teach these things now
because I'd done that you know I thought
I would publish books on Amazon and just
really dominate content marketing but
then um my heart I guess decided to
speak a little louder than my head and
it said Brendan the thing that you hate
most about online business is people
whose only online business is teaching
online business like there's this guy
named Nick Loper has a podcast called
side hustle Nation he had this great
interview with this uh lady about
getting leads through Linkedin I was
like awesome great value and at the end
she's like well now I've decided to do a
course about how to get leads through
Linkedin that will teach you that you
know she was getting them for her
business but then she was also going to
have a course to teach you how to
business the business and Nick ler said
to her and kept it in the recording oh
you're going to do the typical online
marketing thing like do it and then quit
doing it so you can make more money
teaching other people to do it and I
like did like a fist pump and like
cheered in my car for that like my BS
meter is so turned up that like I hate
people who's only so I figured if I
could make $100,000 in my e-commerce
business okay kimonos like the here's
here's the formula I'll give you the
formula it's reach some arbitrary
Milestone get 10,000 subscribers get a
million subscribers on YouTube make six
figures in a launch quit your job make
six figures in Revenue which is way less
than six figures in profit you know it's
some arbitrary Milestone and then you
make a product based on that one case
study of you doing one time you never
have to do it again cuz now you just
teach it and make 10 times more like a
dick and I freaking hate those people I
I freaking hate those people I know
Hate's a strong word but I do like if
that's what you do you and I don't sit
at the same lunch table like I
understand if people that maybe do that
at a certain point or whatever but like
I really admire people who continue
building real businesses if you're going
to do that kind of coy whatever crap
continue you to build a real business on
top of that and I I I think this model
of you only need to know more than the
people you're teaching like that's a
scam that's a scam that people use to
get you to buy their course like of
course you could buy my $1 thousand
course on webinars you're not an expert
no problem you only have to know be one
or two steps ahead than the people
you're teaching that's irresponsible
it's completely irresponsible that's
like having fourth graders teach the
second graders nobody would allow that
ever ever cuz it's insane so this idea
of you don't have to be an expert to
teach it and then they say things like
well the experts can't really remember
what it's like to be a beginner so
you're actually better at helping that
no no there is a level of it's it's
right about here it's a level of
proficiency you should have to teach
something stop telling beginners that
they should make info products to teach
just so they'll buy your info product
about teaching stop
anyways deep breath Brendan anyways uh I
refused to be one of those people so I
decided to start an actual business and
I love following the models of actually
what people are doing versus what
they're saying so I looked at Gary
vaynerchuk and he had put out crushit
and was doing great in his wine business
and whatever he totally could have gone
full Guru and probably would have done
awesome awesome he would have crushed
that but instead he started a digital
marketing agency and I thought that's a
really cool model let me look into that
a little bit and what I realized is
that that's what I want I want to run a
real business do real things for real
clients provide real services that help
them achieve their goals not just make a
product for it and I can prove once
again that I've built two or three
businesses that continue to do these
things and I show that I can replicate
this kind of process and progress and
hustle I feel like that Maps a lot more
to what what I want for my life decided
to change the lighting here here I don't
know I like it better so I got this
recommendation from somebody that I can
consider a mentor that maybe I should
teach as I go make a website document it
whatever and that's that's what we're
doing right right here that's this right
here we're documenting as we're going
but I don't want to be that kind of
person who is trying to release info
products teaching you how to start a
digital marketing agency as I'm trying
to do it and the reason is you actually
end up doing like three times the work
right I'm doing the work I'm documenting
the work and then I'm teaching the work
that's too hard it slows it's it's three
times the amount of work to get one of
the way there that's not math but I knew
it would take me three times as long to
get where I wanted to be if I did that I
would rather get all the way there than
get you know maybe make this I love
making videos it's why I'm doing it I've
always been creative I love making
podcasts like I videoos great for me it
just makes sense but this is not
teaching this is documenting not
creating and really since the goal has
been and will never be to make money
solely teaching people how to make money
I don't really care about it I don't
care about teaching as I go finally
let's get to part one what I'm building
is a multi-part marketing agency a
digital marketing agency for
photographers one part B2B where I'm
providing Client Services directly to
photographers but then it also has this
B Toc side where I'm making courses and
other products info products for
photographers again not teaching people
how to make money on the internet but
teaching marketing to photographer and
the whole thing going through all of
this was like a nearly 15 or 20 step
process that I use to figure out exactly
what business to start and how to start
it here's what that kind of looked like
which leads us to part two how I decided
to do what I was going to do there are
three major influences on this new
business the first is a guy named Glenn
alsup has a website called Viper
chill.com and a program called marketing
Inc he was doing a launch for how to
build a digital marketing agency and I
just consumed all of his free content
there was a ton of it found a bunch of
secret free content by using sitemaps of
his I'm just being honest sorry Glenn to
find his old stuff that he didn't even
talk about anymore he did it for like
his first launch of marketing Inc
watched all those videos just consume
consume consume content trying to learn
more about starting a digital marketing
agency and how to do it successfully and
I learned a ton but my biggest takeaway
from Glenn was that I needed clients
with really high value for their clients
like if I could help uh I don't know a
my favorite bombers barbecue my favorite
barbecue restaurant if I could help them
get 10 new customers that's maybe worth
200 bucks to them but if I help a
wedding photographer get 10 new
customers that's worth $35,000 to them
big difference in how much they're going
to pay me for those customers this leads
me to influence number two which was my
fizzle membership I'm a member at
fizzle.co I think it's like the best
thing thing on the internet and the road
map in there really helped me in a
number of different ways helped me
Define my target Avatar I don't know why
that was a two that would have been a
one to find my target Avatar help me
look at my business my you know my
interest my unfair advantages what I was
good at that nobody else was good at
what I had that they didn't have helped
me figure out how to talk to clients to
find out what their pain points were
helped me Define my audience I've run
out of fingers at this point like
there's so much great stuff in there
after doing a crap ton of of research
watching two of the founder stories in
fizzle I wrote a one-page business plan
picked my business archetype and I was
just off I even have a log in there if
you want to join I'll put a link below
if you want to join fizzle you get five
weeks for free on me with my link
definitely check it out you can get in
there you can see my progress log like
real behind the scenes where I'm super
transparent about this business then the
third part of this was the book will it
Fly by Pat Flynn um I'm in his online
Facebook Community I love Pat Flynn I
was on episode 49 of the SPI podcast
it's like one of the top business
podcasts it was before I even started
okay kimono I was on his podcast this
looks weird it's like a floating it's
like a Flo it's it's my arm but it looks
like a floating arm essentially if
you're just getting started or starting
something new just buy will it Fly by
patlin it's incredibly helpful
incredibly beneficial taking you step by
step through the process of figuring
this stuff out so then the last part was
trying to decide what do I pursue first
do I make courses or do I get clients
and there were two conversations which
you can hear in in season two of my
podcast a lot of numbers in this one you
can hear in season two of my podcast a
conversation with Jason zook and a
conversation with CLA
Lou actually you can't I don't know why
I said you can hear the conversation
with Claire you can't hear the
conversation with Jason because we we
talked on the phone and I was like
driving or something and I called him
because he's awesome he made some time
for me and I talked to him about what he
thought I should do and I talked to
Claire about what I should do on the
podcast they both said clients like get
that minimum viable income to focus 100%
on the agency got to go clients courses
and info products and coaching and all
those that's a longer I hate coaching
never doing coaching again but all of
that Consulting calls things like that
that are a little more manageable than
like long-term coaching relationships
all of that takes a long time and you
want to know right away is somebody
going to pay me for this but like here's
a couple notes from my conversation with
Jason he said help a few people get them
results tell that story I've done that I
have an awesome case study on my website
photo MBA . net you'll be able to find
it front and center he goes don't do
anything creative and weird he does
weird stuff he sells his last name he
gets book like every page in a book
sponsored by a different company like
all these weird you you know you can buy
his future all sorts of crazy stuff he
said don't do anything creative or weird
just get clients and then he said
something really practical and smart
he's like do it for free at first work
for people for free use them as case
studies and then use those case studies
the value you've provided there to
leverage into paying clients duh makes
sense but so many people don't do this
and that's that's what I'm starting how
I decided to start it and why I'm
pursuing clients instead of making
products first probably a mistake people
say some people say you should do
products first I just don't believe in
it I think it's scammy and it's you know
just scumbag internet marketer crap and
then also just like as a caveat just me
to you right now there's no I mean
there's some judgment for the scumbags
out there but like if you're a good
person and you're doing something that
I've chosen not to do and I say some
smartass thing like I hate you what I
don't I don't hate you I don't I don't
hate you I don't but like these are the
decisions that I've made for myself and
I feel super passionate about so I
express them obviously with passion my
one ask right now is just right here
right below or maybe it's over I don't
know which side it's on but down below
there's a little thumbs up guy just
click just give this video the thumbs up
I'd really appreciate you don't have to
subscribe whatever if you want to leave
a comment I would love to know what
business you're building that would be
amazing if you're building something new
leave a note in the comments below I'd
love to chat love to help I've brenon
Hufford don't forget to work hard be
nice people and try not to get too lost
creating something that
matters